= Filewatcher

Simple file watcher. Monitors changes in filesystem by polling. API has no dependencies.

= Install

Needs Ruby and Rubygems:

   $ [sudo] gem install filewatcher

= Command line utility

Filewatcher scans filesystem and execute shell commands when files changes.

Usage:
   filewatcher [-i interval] "<filename>" "<shell command>"
Where
   filename: filename(s) to scan.
   shell command: shell command to execute when file changes on disk.

= Examples

Run the echo command when the file myfile is changed:

   $ filewatcher "myfile" "echo 'myfile has changed'"

Run any javascript in the current directory when it is updated in Windows Powershell:

   > filewatcher *.js "node %FILENAME%"

In Linux/OSX:

   $ filewatcher *.js 'node $FILENAME'

Use ruby filename globbing instead of shell filename globbing by quoting filename. Will look for files in subdirectories.

   > filewatcher "*.js" "node %FILENAME%"

In Linux/OSX:

   > filewatcher '*.js' 'node $FILENAME'

Run script when it is changed with the execute switch. Only works with python, ruby, perl and awk scripts.

   $ filewatcher -e ruby-script.rb

Works with ruby, perl, python and awk by detecting file extensions.

Print a list of all files matching *.css first and the print filename when a file is beeing updated:

   $ filewatcher -l *.css 'echo file: $FILENAME'

= Available enviroment variables

The environment variable $FILENAME is available in the command. On unix like systems the command
has to be enclosed in single quotes. To run node whenever a javascript file is updated:

   $ filewatcher *.js 'node $FILENAME'

The environment variables $FILEPATH and $FILEDIR is also available.

= Command line options

  --interval, -i <f>:   Interval in seconds to scan filesystem. Defaults to 0.5 seconds.
          --exec, -e:   Execute file as a script when file is updated.
   --recurse, -r <s>:   Recurse into the directory, watching everything matching 'expression'
   --include, -n <s>:   Include files (default: *)
   --exclude, -x <s>:   Exclude file(s) matching (default: "")
          --list, -l:   Print name of files being watched
       --version, -v:   Print version and exit
          --help, -h:   Show this message

= Ruby API

Examples:

Watch a list of files and directories:

  require 'filewatcher'

  FileWatcher.new(["lib/", "Rakefile"]).watch do |filename|
    puts "Updated " + filename
  end

To detect if a file is updated or deleted:

  FileWatcher.new(["README.rdoc"]).watch() do |filename, event|
    if(event == :changed)
      puts "File updated: " + filename
    end
    if(event == :delete)
      puts "File deleted: " + filename
    end
    if(event == :new)
      puts "New file: " + filename
    end
  end

To check for changes more often than the default once every second:

  FileWatcher.new(["README.rdoc"]).watch(0.5) do |filename|
    puts "Updated " + filename
  end

Print the names of files beeing watched before we begin:

  FileWatcher.new(["lib/"],true).watch do |filename|
    puts "Updated " + filename
  end
  => Watching files:
  lib/filewatcher.rb

Use patterns to match filenames in current directory and subdirectories. The pattern is not a regular expression; instead it follows rules similar to shell filename globbing. Se Ruby documentation[http://www.ruby-doc.org/core-2.1.1/File.html#method-c-fnmatch] for syntax.

  FileWatcher.new(["*.rb", "*.xml"]).watch do |filename|
    puts "Updated " + filename
  end

= TODO

The Ruby API is fairly well tested but the command line program is buggy at the time beeing.

= Credits

Code inspired by Tom Lieber's blogg posting: http://alltom.com/pages/detecting-file-changes-with-ruby

Find method by c00lrguy: http://snippets.dzone.com/posts/show/5457

Globbing by Kristoffer Roupé https://github.com/kitofr

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but
   bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 - 2014 Thomas Flemming. See LICENSE for details.
